Chileans (Spanish: Chilenos) are people identified with the country of Chile, whose connection may be residential, legal, historical, or cultural. For most Chileans, several or all of these connections exist and are collectively the source of their Chilean identity. Chile is a multilingual and multicultural society, home to people of many different ethnicities and religions. Therefore, many Chileans do not equate their nationality with ethnicity, but with citizenship and allegiance to Chile. The overwhelming majority of Chileans are the product of varying degrees of admixture between European ethnic groups (predominantly Spaniards) with Amerindian peoples indigenous to Chile's modern territory.

Although the historic mestizaje of Europeans and Amerindians is evident across all social strata in the Chilean population, there is a strong correlation between the ratio of a Chilean's European and Amerindian genetic components and his or her socioeconomic situation. There is a marked continuum existing between the lower classes of a high component of Amerindian ancestry and the upper classes of a predominant component of European ancestry. Indigenous inheritance, whether cultural or genetic, is most pronounced in rural areas and in aspects of culture such as Chilean cuisine and Chilean Spanish. Although post-independence immigrants never made up more than 2% of the population, there are now hundreds of thousands of Chileans with German, British, French, Croatian, Italian or Palestinian ancestry, though these have also been mostly miscegenated with other groups within the country.

Though the majority of Chileans reside in Chile, significant communities have been established in multiple countries, most noticeably Argentina, United States, Australia and Canada and countries of the European Union. Although small in number, Chilean people also make up a substantial part of the permanent population of Antarctica and the Falkland Islands (see: Chileans in the Falkland Islands).